[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The 1960s were
such a turbulent time.
And part of that turbulence
was due to the war in Vietnam
that the United States
was propagating.
And there was a lot of
student unrest and protest
against the war.
Dr. King was a leader of that.
I was involved in
these protests myself.
And as the protests
grew stronger
and there were throngs of
people outside the White House--
Lyndon Johnson was
then the president.
His initials were LBJ.
And they were
chanting, hey, hey,
LBJ, how many kids
did you kill today?
And he didn't like hearing that.
And he didn't like
all the pressure.
And he then decided, though
he was eligible as president
to run for re-election in
1968 and the obvious thing was
for him to have done that and he
almost certainly would have won,
he decided not to run.
And that left the
situation open.
Who would then be the
Democratic nominee?
And his vice president,
Hubert Humphrey,
assumed it would be
him, and he immediately
put his name in there
and was in the primaries.
But then Bobby Kennedy,
the younger brother
of the former president,
John F. Kennedy,
who had been
assassinated in 1963--
Bobby had been his
attorney general.
And then he'd become a
Senator from New York.
And he was opposed to
the war in Vietnam.
And he also championed a
lot of other good things.
He was a very close friend with
César Chávez and Dolores Huerta,
who ran the United Farm Workers.
And he was a real supporter of
human rights and civil rights.
And he decided that he
would run for the nomination
against Humphrey.
And as the primary
season went on,
it became apparent that if
Bobby Kennedy won the California
primary in June of 1968,
he would be the nominee
and presumably almost
certainly be the new president.
And my generation was
thrilled with this idea.
Bobby Kennedy, unlike
John F. Kennedy,
unlike LBJ, unlike
Humphrey, was really a--
he was a friend of Dr. King's.
He was a friend of the
civil rights movement.
protests against the war.
He was a friend of the effort
to build a society that's
based in social
justice, that's based
in something other
than obeisance
to the military
industrial complex.
And in June of
1968, Bobby Kennedy
won the California primary.
And it was a time of great
celebration for those of us
who aspired, as I did, towards
a peaceful world and the end
to that war.
However, at the
celebration that night,
the night of the primary--
and Dolores Huerta was
right next to Bobby Kennedy
when this happened--
he was assassinated.
He was shot dead in the
hotel ballroom celebrating
his victory.
And then Humphrey
became the nominee
and lost to Nixon, who
became the president in '68.
And my generation that
had worked so hard
to protest this war, had forced
LBJ not to seek re-election,
had risen up to support
Bobby Kennedy, who
would have been
the new president,
we end up with Nixon as the
new president, who's worse
than LBJ in every kind of way.
Nixon-- my father was delighted.
This is his close friend.
This is somebody
he really likes.
I was heartbroken.
And a lot of people
in my generation
were, that the war
would now continue.
Nixon escalated it.
I think the world now knows
who Richard Nixon was,
what the quality
of his character
was, what the quality
of his presidency was.
It was very painful.
1968 was a heavy year.
We lose Dr. King in April.
He's killed.
Bobby Kennedy is killed in June.
In November, Nixon
wins the election.
What a turnaround.
It was so heavy
and heartbreaking
for our generation,
for those of us
who aspire to a better way
of life; an end to the war;
a lessening of the power
of the war machine;
a lessening of the greed
force in the world;
an awakening of
caring, compassion
as defining elements
of our public policies,
of our economic policies, of
our international policies,
of our lives, of
our communities.
It was a really hard blow to
take these series of things.
And it was only
five years previous
that John F. Kennedy, Bobby's
older brother, had been killed.
He was the president,
been assassinated.
All these assassinations
in a short period
of time of these major
figures, it's like--
I don't know.
There's a lot of
controversy about who was
behind these assassinations.
Was it Lee Harvey Oswald?
Was it Jack Ruby?
There's a lot of controversy.
I have my opinions.
Everybody has their opinions.
What isn't a matter
of opinion, though,
is that these men were killed.
And this caused a rupture
in the fabric of society
that I don't know if
it's ever been healed.
I know for myself, it was
clear that I need to--
I've been very involved in
these protests, civil rights
movement, anti-war movement.
And I began to feel like we
don't know what we're doing.
I don't know what I'm doing.
We had the best of intentions
in protesting the war.
We did succeed in
enforcing LBJ to resign.
We did succeed in getting
Bobby Kennedy the support he
needed to become president.
And yet, we end up with Nixon.
We don't know what we're doing.
And I began to feel like
I need to go inside.
I need to meditate.
I need to do yoga.
I need to calm my
nervous system.
I need to learn to go as deep
inside as I want to go outside,
to change the world,
to stay in balance.
And I think our
generation needs to do
that because with the
best of intentions,
we now have President Nixon.
So I began to think we need to--
I need to meditate more, do
more yoga, do more inner work,
do more therapy,
do more confronting
of my own inner demons, and
facing my own emotional issues
directly and get more centered,
more connected to spirit
in order then to have an
impact on the world that
is a positive one, because
those were real tough times.